Add doc for `astro dev upgrade-test` (#2610)
astronomer/docs: astro/cli/astro-dev-upgrade-test.md

---
sidebar_label: "astro dev upgrade-test"
title: "astro dev upgrade-test"
id: astro-dev-upgrade-test
description: Reference documentation for astro dev upgrade-test.
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

Test your local Airflow environment against a new version of Airflow to prepare for an upgrade. This command can be used to test an upgrade to a specific Airflow, Astro Runtime, or Astronomer Certified version. Specifically, this command will test the following between your current Airflow version and your desired Airflow version:

- Identify dependency conflicts for the Python packages
- Identify major and minor version changes of the Python packages 
- Identify DAGs along with the import errors that will not import correctly during an upgrade

Though you cannot use this command directly with your Astro Deployment, you can build your Deployment's Astro project locally to check for the viability of your upgrade.

## Usage

By default, this command will perform all three tests on your local Airflow environment.

```bash
astro dev upgrade-test
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

By default, the command runs all three available tests on your project against the latest version of Astro Runtime.
```

## Options

| Option              | Description                                                                                                                                                                               | Possible Values                                                                                        |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `--airflow-version` | An Airflow version to check your DAGs and `requirements.txt` against. By default, the latest version of Airflow is chosen. If you are on the latest version, the command will do nothing. | Any valid [Airflow version](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--airflow-version` | The version of Airflow you want to upgrade to. The default is the latest available version. | Any valid [Airflow version](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html). |
```

> | `--runtime-version` | An Astro runtime version to check your DAGs and `requirements.txt` against.                                                                                                               | Any valid [Astro runtime version](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/runtime-release-notes).             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--runtime-version` | The version of Astro Runtime you want to upgrade to. The default is the latest available version.                                                                                                               | Any valid [Astro runtime version](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/runtime-release-notes).             |
```

> | `--conflict-test`   | Check for dependency conflict between your `requirements.txt` and your new Airflow version                                                                                                | N/A                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--conflict-test`   | Only run conflict tests. These tests check whether you will have dependency conflicts after you upgrade.                                                                                                | N/A                                                                                                    |
```

| `--dag-test`        | Check for DAGs import errors against your new Airflow version                                                                                                                             | N/A                                                                                                    |

> | `--provider-check`  | Check for major depedency changes                                                                                                                                                         | N/A                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--version-check`  | Only run version tests. These tests show you how your dependency versions will change after you upgrade.                                                                                                                                                         | None                                                                                                    |
```
Didn't see the provider-check flag in this PR: https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/pull/1314/files

## Examples

> To test your DAGs and `requirements.txt` against the latest version of Airflow:
> 
> ```bash
> astro dev upgrade-test
> ```
> 
> To test your DAGs and `requirements.txt` against a specific version of Airflow:
> 
> ```bash
> astro dev upgrade-test --airflow-version 2.6.3
> ```
> 
> To check for major dependency change from the current Airflow version to a specific version of Airflow:
> 
> ```bash
> astro dev upgrade-test --airflow-version 2.6.3 --provider-check 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
# Run all tests before upgrading to Astro Runtime 8
astro dev upgrade-test --runtime-version 8.0.0

# Test an Astro project file against a specific Airflow version
astro dev upgrade-test --airflow-version 2.6.3

# Test only dependency version changes against Airflow 2.6.3:
astro dev upgrade-test --airflow-version 2.6.3 --provider-check 
```

Author: @jwitz I don't agree with one block for all the command examples, because you can't easily copy a command and use it. It will be easier for developers to use it if they are separate without comments. Now if I click copy all the comments and all commands are also copied, which require editing.

Reviewer: Great point, I agree! Can you apply the changes to copy while keeping your original format?

```bash
astro dev upgrade-test
```

By default, the command runs all three available tests on your project against the latest version of Astro Runtime.

## Options

| Option                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Possible Values                                                                                        |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-a`, `--airflow-version` | The equivalent of Airflow you want to upgrade to. The default is the latest available version. Note that the Astro CLI will still test against an Astro Runtime image based on the Airflow version you specify. | Any valid [Airflow version](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html). |

> | `-d`, `--conflict-test`   | Only run conflict tests. These tests check whether you will have dependency conflicts after you upgrade.                                                                                                        | None                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-c`, `--conflict-test`   | Only run conflict tests. These tests check whether you will have dependency conflicts after you upgrade.                                                                                                        | None                                                                                                   |
```

> | `--dag-test`              | Only run DAG tests. These tests check whether your DAGs will generate import errors after you upgrade.                                                                                                          | None                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-d`, `--dag-test`              | Only run DAG tests. These tests check whether your DAGs will generate import errors after you upgrade.                                                                                                          | None                                                                                                   |
```

---
sidebar_label: "astro dev upgrade-test"
title: "astro dev upgrade-test"
id: astro-dev-upgrade-test
description: Reference documentation for astro dev upgrade-test.
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

Test your local Airflow environment against a new version of Airflow to prepare for an upgrade. This command can be used to test your environment before you upgrade to a specific Airflow, Astro Runtime, or Astronomer Certified version. Specifically, this command will run the following tests:

- Identify dependency conflicts for Python packages in your upgrade version.
- Identify major and minor version changes of the Python packages in your upgrade version.
- Identify DAG import errors that will appear after you upgrade.

This command only works with local Airflow environment. Therefore, this command is useful to test an upgrade locally before pushing the upgrade to a Deployment on Astro.

:::tip Using with Astronomer Software

If you are authenticated to Astronomer Software, you can test an upgrade using an Astronomer Certified Image. For this, you must add the flag `--use-astronomer-certified` along with the `--airflow-version` you would like to upgrade to.

> :::

Author: This was mentioned in the "Test doc" by David, I moved it here as a tip because it is just a command and folks can use refer this from here.

Reviewer: Astronomer Certified is officially deprecated, I think it's okay to keep this only in the reference guide since it should only be used in really specific testing use cases.
